# Question
Are Women and the LGBT community represented well within the recent gaming industry and is this progression good?

# Introduction
- I believe that recent representation of women has advanced significantly compared to how they were compared in all media in the past compared to now, including within the gaming industry. I don't believe that this can be disputed by anyone apart from bigots who refuse to change their ideals. However, In this essay, I will discuss with you, the reader, as to why I believe that this is a good thing and why I think we are headed in the right direction because of this.

# Topic 1 (Women in gaming)
The first topic to talk through is women representation. In past gaming, women were only in games as "objects" that were included to please male audiences with "good looks" and rarely ever had the ability to protect and defend themselves and others. One of the most famous examples of this is Princess Peach in old mario entries. The first mario game "super mario bros" established her as a helpless woman who needed saving from the main, male character. Over time, this approach has "grown old" and princess peach has gained independence in recent mario releases such as mario bros wonder and even the mario movie itself. I feel that this is a detrimental architype that society had abided by in the past. However, nowadays, people have realised that it makes no sense that just because you have been born a certain way, doesn't mean that you may be "beneath" someone else. And by teaching society and recent, newer generations of this model, we can grow in the future into a more empathetic and accepting society free of negative judgement and prejudice.

As to how recent gaming has presented this idea, there are up to date examples of how this process has been progressing and how I believe, the industry has been changing for the better.

My first example is within the horror genre of gaming inside of the "Resident Evil" franchise. Capcom's first game inside of the Resident Evil universe both has a female and male main character where both characters have the same gameplay and story. On either playthrough, the character you didn't choose to play, gets placed inside of a jail cell, showing the player that there is equality amongst either gender you wish to choose. When this game released, games with female protagonists were few and far between. Even games that managed to include female protagonists usually had them dressed provocatively. In the first Resident Evil game, and many afterwards, "Jill Valentine" rarely ever got sexualised, only a couple times (saying "only" as if a "couple times" is a good thing but that shows the depth of the male gaze). And especially in recent times, she has routinely proven to be a tough and realistic main character that definitely inspires players and people of her demographic. In her most recent game, "Resident Evil 3", she is the main character and continuously acts independently and beats "monsters" that she so clearly has a disadvantage against. By subtly showing that a woman can act this way on a routine basis, it inspires current and future generations to acknowledge women independency and the aptitude to care for themselves and removes the stigma of a woman's incompetence from society. Jill Valentine also appears in the most recent animated film "Resident Evil Death Island" where she is one of the main 4 protagonists. In this film, Jill Valentine faces off against one of the main characters "Leon S. Kennedy" but results in a draw / stalemate. The reason as to why I bring this up, is because the film very clearly doesn't show prejudice or biases towards certain sexes or genders. Which again presents the idea of equality amongst the sexes.

A second example is through one of the most well known female protagonists in the gaming space. And that is "Lara Croft". The reason why I bring up this character is because of how she has developed over the years. Lara Croft was an independent protagonist, but she was also heavily sexualised amongst the tomb raider playerbase and developers. She frequently wore "skimpy" outfits created by these developers and rumours of a "nude" cheat code was circulating at the time. The important part of why I have mentioned this character is because of how she is now. Lara Croft's recent releases haven't done a great deal of impact to her character in either detrimental or beneficial ways. But her shift in clothing has become less objectifying. Lara Croft, as of recent, only wears "skimpy" outfits when it is to recreate one of hers in the past. One could argue that even condoning the return of these outfits is a clear undermining of her representation and I am inclined to agree. However, it is undeniable that she has seen some recent changes that benefit her image for all audiences that view her.

My third example is of the main character from the "Horizon" games, including "Zero Dawn" and "Forbidden West". The protagonist for these games is "Aloy" and she is one of my favourite examples for the female image. This is because she is a typical "butch" female and the game never addresses why she looks this way. It's almost like ordinary women can fit the "butch" stereotype without anyone's need to address it. By presenting the main character as nonchalantly being "butch", the audience gets the subtle impression of a "butch" woman's image ingrained subconciously inside of their brain, enforcing their acceptance of this archetype. This is definitely a good principle as women don't need to follow the structure that self-concious men project onto them. If the men learn to accept that people are different, and can follow a different image than what has been "assigned" to them, then all can live without judgement and women of all "types" can live freely.

I have mentioned sparsely throughout this first topic as to why the progessive aspects of recent gaming ventures has led to more acceptance for women. But now is the moment for a summary and why I think the progressiveness of the recent gaming industry will only lead to a good future. Men and women's lives should be equal, isn't it unfair to be judged differently according to our births? Throughout media of any age, men have always been placed above women and frequently appear as main characters rather than women because, in certain cases, women won't sell as well due to how society functions in both their view of women and how they get presented. In recent eras, we have strayed away from this harmful ideology and now condone equal rights amongst all sexes and genders. When it comes to how we replace this damaging media methodology with one fixed with acceptance and liberty. The gaming industry and certain other creative media outlets are and already have been making strides towards this distant future. By normalising the "butch" depiction, and normalising women being independent, future generations will have the knowledge necessary for understanding that they themselves shall never place themselves over anyone of a different sex. And that's precisely what these industries have been endorsing. A future without prejudice and judgement, only freedom to be who you are.

# Topic 2 (LGBT representation)

The other aspect to the question presented was addressing the representation of the LGBT community inside of the gaming industry. This topic is different to the prior topic of women representation. For women, they had been represented in games of the past albeit not very successfully, whereas the LGBT community, has had little to no representation, and this is bad.

- e.g. Overwatch 41 20 female 20 male 1 non-binary, 6 lgbt (including homosexual, transexual, pansexual and non-binary)

The first topic to talk through is women representation. In past gaming, women were only in games as "objects" that were included to please male audiences with "good looks" and rarely ever had the ability to protect and defend themselves and others. One of the most famous examples of this is Princess Peach in old mario entries. The first mario game "super mario bros" established her as a helpless woman who needed saving from the main, male character. Over time, this approach has "grown old" and princess peach has gained independence in recent mario releases such as mario bros wonder and even the mario movie itself. I feel that this is a detrimental architype that society had abided by in the past. However, nowadays, people have realised that it makes no sense that just because you have been born a certain way, doesn't mean that you may be "beneath" someone else. And by teaching society and recent, newer generations of this model, we can grow in the future into a more empathetic and accepting society free of negative judgement and prejudice.

Another example of the recent gaming industry representing the LGBT community well is with the 2020 release of the Naughty Dog game "The Last of Us part 2". The reason as to why I think that this example is successfully progressive is because of the game's nonchalant acknowledgement of the main character's (Ellie) sexuality.

Ellie (tlou2 - not only is she female, but the game plays into her lesbian sexuality quite well, without being afraid of being "woke" or "too progressive" and giving her real power and independence. This benefits society as it shows the audience that these people really exist and they really think and have these feelings. By teaching society of the genuine existence of LGBT figures, these "hiding" people that have been represented successfully can be themselves and won't be afraid of "coming out", being mis-represented or judged because of their sexuality. Everyone is human and allowing people to be themselves with no judgement is the most empathic thing to do and I believe most of society agrees with the concept of empathy and the acceptance that comes with it.)

In summary, I believe that the gaming industry nowadays is getting more progressive and accepting of previously "attacked" and prjudiced minorities